Shell

Shell is a UNIX term for the interactive user interface with an operating system. 
The shell is the layer of programming that understands and executes the commands a user enters. 
In some systems, the shell is called a command interpreter. 

Features of shell:

1.Wildcard substitution in file names
2.Wildcard substitution in file names
3.Command aliasing
4.Command history
5.File name substitution
6.Input and output redirection
7.Piping
8.Shell variable substitution

Types of Shells:

Bourne shell
C shell
TC shell
Z shell
Korn shell
Bourne-Again shell (BASH)




Bourne shell:
The Bourne shell (sh) is a shell, or command-line interpreter, for computer operating systems.
Developed by Stephen Bourne at Bell Labs, it was a replacement for the Thompson shell
 it is used as an interactive command interpreter.
 It was also intended as a scripting language and contains most of the features that are commonly considered to produce structured programs.


C shell:
It is known as "csh."
The C shell was designed to allow users to write shell script programs using a syntax very similar to that of the C programming language. 

TC shell:
TC shell is an expansion upon the C shell.
It is also known as "tcsh."
It has all the same features, but adds the ability to use keystrokes from the Emacs word processor program to edit text on the command line. 
For example, users can press Esc-D to delete the rest of the highlighted word.

Z shell:
Zsh is a shell of the Bourne shell family, which also includes bash and the Korn shell.
 Developed by Paul Falstad, zsh was intended to be a replacement for both the Bourne and C shell . 
It incorporates features of all the other shells as well as new capabilities.

 
Korn shell:
It is known as "ksh."
Korn Shell was also written by a developer at Bell Labs, David Korn.
 It attempts to merge the features of the C shell, TC shell and Bourne shell under one package. 
It also includes the ability for developers to create new shell commands as the need arises.

Bourne-Again shell:
It is known as "bash."
The Bourne-Again shell is an updated version of the original Bourne shell that was created by the Free Software Foundation for its open source GNU project.
 It is a widely used shell in the open source community.
 It incorporates some of the more advanced features found in the C, TC and Korn shells.



Enivornmental variables:
Linux environment variables act as placeholders for information stored within the system that passes data to programs launched in shells or subshells.


Commands for Environment Variables:
env  – The command lists all of the environment variables in the shell.
printenv – The command prints all of environment variables and definitions of the current environment.
set – The command assigns or defines an environment variable.
unset – The command deletes the environment variable. 
export – The command exports the value of the newly assigned environment variable.
